My name is Lieutenant Commander David Barnhill on 37 years old, and I'm
an aviator in the United States Navy. I grew up in Greensboro, North
Carolina. I went to high school at Southwest Guilford High School.
My dad is a is an investment broker. My mom was a ST stayed at home,
but she also did thinks, except to taught things like that. Growing
up, we didn't move around very much. We only moved once to my recollection,
and my parents are actually still in that house in North
Carolina. In high school, I had multiple options. A sw far is where
I wanted to go to college. A lot of public universities. My dad would
not pay for anything. Private eso. I sought out a Navy Rossi scholarship,
and I also applied to the United States Naval Academy and West
Point. I got into all of those schools, uh, to include UNC Chapel
Hill, North Carolina State University, University of Colorado, Boulder
and I got as well a cz Virginia Tech. I got ah Rossi scholarship
to UNC Chapel Hill, but my junior year I decided that my goal was going
to be together. The United States Naval Academy with a backup of
West Point. I decided that year that I wanted to join the military,
which was kind of odd for our family, because we didn't have a long
tradition of military service. As far as I know, there are only two
people in my family that served in the military and both of them or
my grandfather's. One of them was a CB in the United States Navy,
and the other one was in the Army, and I'm not entirely sure what he
did. But both of them served in World War Two in different capacities.
So my junior year, I I decided to apply to the Naval Academy on,
and I found out in the fall of my senior year that I was accepted,
and that was said and done everything else every other place was then
put on hold, and I was looking for to go into the Naval Academy in
the summer of 2000 won ignore. Like every other student, there spent
four years of the Naval Academy upon going there, I thought for sure
that I was going to be a sub Mariner. That was what I thought I wanted
to do. But then, after some careful, deliberate and perhaps some
wise words given from some other people, I decided the aviation was
the better choice. And that was also my goal for pretty much the
rest of my time at the Naval Academy, I studied history at the Naval
Academy, which is somewhat odd because it is a technical school. But
I took enough courses, Ah, to get myself a bachelor of science, which
is someone abnormal from any other college you might go to. Normally
we get a bachelor of arts. I minored in the Russian language, and
the Naval Academy sent me to Russia twice to study for about a month
each time, only staying with families there to get a bit better.
Handle the Russian language. As of now, I have spoken zero Russian
since I last left the Naval Academy. Upon graduation, as I said, a selected
aviation, I spent about three months at the Naval Academy after
graduation, and then I went down to Pensacola, Florida, for flight
training. It was pretty difficult for me. I did well, but it required
me to put a lot of time to study after I at the end of my time
down in Pensacola. I ended up selecting helicopters as my community
and I went through the training pipeline and about a about a year and
1/2 after I finished basic flight training from there, I moved to
San Diego. Prior to moving, I got married to my wife, whom I met at
the Naval Academy. She was not in the Naval Academy, but she was working
in Washington, D. C. At the time. So we both moved to San Diego
to finish up my training before I went to my first operational duty
station. My after I finish training in San Diego, which if you ever
get the chance of going to San Diego, you should, uh I then went to
Japan. What I found odd about going to Japan is that no one seemed
to really want to go there. Always kind of felt like being in the military
gave you the opportunity to see all kinds of things, but it seemed
like to me most people wanted to stay in the continental United
States, and that's totally understandable because there's a lot of
stability in that choice. However, I had the opportunity to go to Japan
is a mid shipment, and I knew that that was the place I wanted
to go. After some careful convincing, my wife agreed to it. I think
you could talk to her and she would say it was one of the better decisions
we've made Being in the in the with us, both with us being in
the Navy. I spent three years in Japan where I deployed, depending
how you calculate it. Six times multiple ships. So two different aircraft
carriers I, and three different destroyer class ships and tone
in total assessment about a year and 1/2 out at sea with several other
small land based of detachments around Japan while we were there
after leaving after at the end of my time in Japan for we selected
to go to a training, a kind of training command in Fallon, Nevada is
called a naval strike in our warfare center, and I hate to describe
it like this, but it is where Top gun is located, and basically I was
was part of the school that taught advanced tactics to helicopter
aviators, so usually you would have more advanced aviators come through
and we would help hone their skills and that that they learned
as junior officers. After 3.5 years in Fallon, we then decided to go
back to Japan for a second tour. We spent about a year and 1/2 or maybe
just under two years in Japan. The second time at the time, I was
put on the carrier wing staff where I was responsible for helicopter
operations in and around the Carrier Strike Group. While there,
uh, we had our second child. We had a first child. Well, weird Fallon
at her second child in Japan. Uh, this this experience being in Japan
with Children was far different than the 1st 1 It was more difficult,
still provided a lot of different good opportunities, but it was
definitely more of a challenge. And I believe my wife would say something
similar that we did after we finished our tour in Japan, the
second tour in Japan. We then moved to San Diego for what we call
the department head to her. I was in charge of various departments within
an aviation squadron. Uh, probably one of the more challenging
leadership roles that I had have had in the since being in the Navy,
but one of more rewarding things I've done as well. Uh, at the end
of my time as a department head, I decided it was time for me to go
to school, and soon I'm now a student at the Naval Postgraduate School
studying Operations Research, which is a combination of data, science,
data analysis and various types of statistics and optimization.